switch to tri-state (#3039)
httpwg/http-extensions: draft-ietf-httpbis-incremental.md

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# The Incremental Header Field

The Incremental HTTP header field expresses the sender's preference regarding
when HTTP intermediaries start forwarding the message downstream.

This header field conveys a Structured Field Token
({{Section 3.3.4 of STRUCTURED-FIELDS}}).

This specification defines the following three Tokens:

* "always": Requires incremental forwarding.
* "preferred": Prefers incremental forwarding if feasible.
* "not-preferred": Allow buffering before forwarding.

Upon receiving a header section with the Incremental header field, HTTP
intermediaries respect the sender's preference as follows:

> When the value is "always", intermediaries SHOULD forward the message

Reviewer: Nitpicking, but doesn't SHOULD (instead of MUST) make "always" effectively the same as "preferred"?

Author: The difference is in how the intermediaries behave when they refuse (or cannot).

In case of `always`, the intermediaries generate errors (because they know that things break by not delivering incremental). In case of `preferred` the intermediaries just buffer the message (because they know that incremental delivery is nothing more than a preference).

Reviewer: Right, that's my understanding as well. But doesn't it mean that "always" should be a normative MUST instead of SHOULD?

Author: That's fair. Even though the Incremental header is advisory (as HTTP stacks are not required to implement every HTTP extension), for those that understand Incremental it is better to use MUSTs.

Reviewer 2: I agree that SHOULD sounds a bit odd for "always". However, thinking of when it would be violated, it would mainly be a case where incremental delivery doesn't actually make sense (too short to break up into chunks, all available at the same time, not able to send until the whole thing is available). In such a case, the message might not be delivered incrementally, but still isn't an error case.

Author: Sounds like we agree that portions of the HTTP message ought to be delivered in a timely manner. Assuming that is the case, I think we should use a MUST that covers the cases that Tommy brought up.

Reviewer 3: This really puts a lie to the whole "always" thing for me.  Because an intermediary might not implement, the value is pretty low value.

On the other hand, a simple Boolean has the benefit of asking for, but not expecting, the non-buffered forwarding.  Obviously, if buffering occurs, the request will go badly, but this is always a risk.

I think that our current approach is to strongly request incremental, but not completely depend on that happening.  That's most healthy for the endpoint requesting that treatment, because they need to think about what might happen if the proxy doesn't understand the request OR the proxy refuses the request.

Author: > This really puts a lie to the whole "always" thing for me. Because an intermediary might not implement, the value is pretty low value.

We all agree that intermediaries might not understand the header and buffer the request.

But that point is orthogonal to what clients can expect when they know the intermediaries they are talking to have implemented the extension.

If the debate is between SHOULD vs. MUST, then I can live either ways. But I really think we should assure endpoints that, when talking through intermediaries that implement the extension, the endpoints can expect the they would see incremental delivery or get the request rejected.

> incrementally with minimum buffering. If incremental delivery is impossible,

Reviewer 2: Is it ever "impossible", or is it something that the server is just unwilling to support?

> incrementally with minimum buffering. If incremental delivery is impossible,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
incrementally with minimum buffering. If the intermediary is unwilling to forward incrementally,
```

intermediaries SHOULD abort the HTTP request by responding with a 503 Service
Unavailable error or by resetting the stream.

When the value is "preferred", intermediares SHOULD forward the message
incrementally if feasible. However, they MAY buffer the message if necessary due
to system constraints.

When the value is "not-preferred", intermediaries are free to buffer the message

> before forwarding it, but they are not required to do so.

Reviewer: Isn't this effectively the same as absent header?

Author: Yeah, there's definitely the question of what is the default and if we need store-and-forward as a preference.

When the Incremental HTTP header field conveys an unknown token, intermediaries

> SHOULD behave as if the Incremental HTTP header field was absent.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we also have "never" (enforcing store-and-forward semantics)?
